
Git & GitHub Interview Questions



What is git?
Ans) Git is a source code management tool,when the developer pushes the code into git at that time we can track 
     the changesand who pushes the code and also we can see the file to file difference.
What is the difference between git and GitHub?
Ans)  Git is a version control system that lets you manage and keep track of your source code history. 
      GitHub is a cloud-based hosting service that lets you manage Git repositories. 

What is the abbreviation of VCS?
Ans)version control system /software.

What is the abbreviation of SCM?
Ans) source code management.

Write down 5 SCM names?
Ans) git hub , Git lab ,Bigbucket , SVN(Sub version),TFS (team foundation server).

What is Branch?
Ans) branch is nothing but parallel development of project by doing modification in coding whch will not effct the main line ,most recent commit on a branch is referred as tip 
     of that branch nothing but head which moves forward as changes done through commits

What is tag?
Ans) it refers specific point in histoty were different version are released from this point 
What is the difference between Branch and Tag?
Ans) branch vs tag main difference is that branch always points the head of development line and will change after commitimg and pushing done were a tags will not change.

When we will create the branch and when we will the create tag?
Ans) branch is created when develpoment should be done paralley
     tag is created when specific is going to release

What is “git add” command will do?
Ans) " git add".* - it will transfer the files from working area to satging area 

What is the command to revert the code from staging area to working area?
Ans) git reset file name 

What is the git revert command?
Ans) The git revert command is a forward-moving undo operation that offers a safe method of undoing changes.

What is the difference between fetch and pull in Git?
Ans)  git fetch will fetch information only to loacal repository
      git pll will fetch not only local repository but also current work station we are working in
How to see how many branches are currently available in git repo?
Ans)  git branch -a
What is the command to create the branch?
Ans) git branch branch name 
How to switch from branch to another branch?
Ans)git checkout branch name
How to create branch and how to switch to that branch in one command?
Ans)  git checkout -b branch name
What is the command to delete the branch in local repo?
Ans)git branch -d branch name

What is the command to delete branch in remote repo?
Ans) git push aliyasname -d branch name

What is the branching strategy you are following?
Ans) Branching strategies coordinate work to allow for easier integration of changes and releases. They create a development workflow

What is git stash command?
Ans) git stash command will temporarily saves the changes done in woeking directory later we aply or drop it 

What is git cherry-pick ?
Ans) git cherry pick command wil adopt changes of particular commit to present branch

What does git rebase?
Ans)  Rebase is the process of moving or combining a sequence of commits to a new base commit. 

What is PAT?
Ans) personal access token password for integrating to github remote repository

What is SSH key and how to generate ssh-key?
Ans) 

What is the default path for ssh keys?
Ans)\.ssh

How many file will generate if you create ssh keys and what are the file names?
Ans) 

What is the difference between git & GitHub?
Ans) 

What are the git best practices while committing the code need to follow?
Ans) 

How to change git commit message after push (given that no one pulled from remote)?
Ans)git commit --amend -m "rfrtt"

How to rename the branch name?
Ans) git branch -m <old name > <new name >

What is the command to get the code from remote git repo?
Ans) git clone <url>

How to check the particular branch from github?
Ans)
What is the command to see all git messages in local repo?

Ans) git log

How to create the repository in git?
Ans)	 
How to check if a branch is already merged with any branch or not?
Ans)git branch merged master 

What is SubGit??
Ans)SubGit is stress-free tool for migrating from SVN to Git.
In Which language Git is developed?
Ans) C and bourne shell 
What is the difference between git merge and git rebase?
Ans) Git rebase and merge both integrate changes from one branch into another. Where they differ is how it's done. Git rebase moves a feature branch into a master. 
Git merge adds a new commit, preserving the history.

What is the difference between git reset and git revert?
Ans) Reset - On the commit-level, resetting is a way to move the tip of a branch to a different commit. Revert - Reverting undoes a commit by creating a new commit.

What is the git workflow?
Ans)

Ans)
How you will migrate the projects from SVN to GitHub?
Ans)
What is merge conflicts? Have you resolved the merge conflicts?
Ans). Merge conflicts occur when competing changes are made to the same line of a file, or when one person edits a file and another person deletes the same file.
For more information, see "About merge conflicts."

How to see how many files are committed in one particular commit id?
Ans)  git show commit_id --name

What is git hooks? Can you name some git hooks?
Ans) There are two groups of Git hooks: client-side / local hooks, which are prompted by events on the local repository,
such as when a developer commits or merges code. server-side / remote hooks, which are run on the network hosting the repository, 
and they are prompted by events such as receiving pushes.

What is .gitignore file?
Ans) A . gitignore file is a plain text file where each line contains a pattern for files/directories to ignore

What is git bare and git non bare repository, use cases?
Ans) 

What is the git command to create the achieve files?
Ans)  git archive -

What is git prune, Mirroring and git repack commands?
Ans) 

What are the git objects?
Ans) blobs ,commit ,tree ,tag

What is Version control system or Source code manager?
Ans) Version control, also known as source control, is the practice of tracking and managing changes to software code

Benefits of VCS or SCM?
Ans) the idea behind the SCM methodology is to prevent and resolve conflicts among developers' codes

What is a repository in GIT?
Ans) where we can stores the source code

Difference between Git and SVN?
Ans) Git has a Distributed Model. SVN has a Centralized Model.

What are the two types of git authentication?
Ans) http & ssh

What are the branches in Git and its purpose?
Ans) In Git, branches are a part of your everyday development process. Git branches are effectively a pointer to a snapshot of your changes.
When you want to add a new feature or fix a bug—no matter how big or how small—you spawn a new branch to encapsulate your changes.
What is the common branching pattern in GIT?
Ans) The two primary branches in Git flow are main and develop.
There are three types of supporting branches with different intended purposes: feature, release, and hotfix.
What is Pull requests?
Ans) A pull request is a method of submitting contributions to an open development project.

How to install git in Linux & Windows?
Ans) Install Git on Linux
From your shell, install Git using apt-get: $ sudo apt-get update $ sudo apt-get install git.
Verify the installation was successful by typing git --version : $ git --version git version 2.9.2.
Configure your Git username and email using the following commands, replacing Emma's name with your own.

How to setup repository though command line?
Ans)
How to setup repository in github and clone it?
Ans) on GitHub.com, navigate to the main page of the repository. · Above the list of files, click Code. "Code" button · Click Open with GitHub Desktop to clone

What is git clone command used for?
Ans) download

What is git config command used for?
Ans) The git config command is a convenience function that is used to set Git configuration values on a global or local project level. 

Git config data is stored in what location?
Ans) On windows this file can be found at C:\Documents and Settings\All Users\Application Data\Git\config on Windows XP,
and in C:\ProgramData\Git\config on Windows Vista and newer.

Git config global and local files?
Ans) 

Content of git config file?
Ans) The Git configuration file contains a number of variables that affect the Git commands' behavior. The . git/config file in each repository is used to store the configuration for that repository, and $HOME/.
gitconfig is used to store a per-user configuration as fallback values for the .

git add command’s purpose?
Ans) the git add command adds a change in the working directory to the staging area. It tells Git that you want to include updates to a particular file in the next commit.
How to remove/rename files in local git repo?
Ans) Commit the file that you've staged in your local repository.
$ git commit -m "Rename file" # Commits the tracked changes and prepares them to be pushed to a remote repository.
# To remove this commit and modify the file, use 'git reset --soft HEAD~1' and commit and add the file again.

What is the git commit command purpose?
Ans) The git commit command captures a snapshot of the project's currently staged changes

How to sync local git repo data with github?
Ans) Open a command prompt. ...
Change the current working directory to your local project. ...
Change to your desired branch. ...
Sync your local repository with the upstream (the original one) ...
Perform merge. ...
Push your local changes to your repository.


How to change branches in local git repo?
Ans) git checkout

What is the difference between ‘git remote’ and ‘git clone’?
Ans) creates a new git repository by copying an existing one located at the URI you specify.01-Feb-2011

git status?
Ans) The git status command displays the state of the working directory and the staging area

What is the function of ‘git rm’?
Ans) The primary function of git rm is to remove tracked files from the Git index. 

What is the function of ‘git checkout’ in git?
Ans)  The git checkout command lets you navigate between the branches created by git branch 


Explain what is commit message?
Ans)  A commit in GitHub is described as a saved change. A commit message explains what change you made to your project.

How to setup github ssh authentication?
Ans) Log into your GitHub account.
Click your avatar and choose Settings.
Select SSH and GPG keys.
Click New SSH key.
Enter a title in the field.
Paste your public key into the Key field.
Click Add SSH key.

What is git webhooks?
Ans)  Webhooks allow you to build or set up integrations, such as GitHub Apps or OAuth Apps, which subscribe to certain events on GitHub.com.

Tell me the branching strategies you followed for your project?
Ans)

What is git rebase?
Ans) Rebase is an action in Git that allows you to rewrite commits from one branch onto another branch.

What is git stash?
Ans) temporary shelves

What is the difference between git pull and git fetch?
Ans) git fetch is the command that tells your local git to retrieve the latest meta-data info from the original (yet doesn't do any file transferring. It's more like just checking to see if there are any changes available).
git pull on the other hand does that AND brings (copy) those changes from the remote repository.

Difference between git and svn?
Ans)

What is the difference between "git checkout " and "svn checkout " commands?
Ans)

Advantages of git over with svn?
Ans)

Explain about staging area in git?
Ans) These files are also referred to as "untracked files."
Staging area is files that are going to be a part of the next commit, which lets git know what changes in the file are going to occur for the next commit.
The repository contains all of a project's commits. ... They can also be called untracked files.

How do you check after git merge …where merging is correctly or not?
Ans) git status

